## Group Notations
#Groups 
- $\mathbb{Z}, \mathbb{Q}, \mathbb{R}, \mathbb{C}-$ the integers/rationals/reals/complex numbers under $+$.
- $C_{n}-$ the [[Cyclic Group]] of order $n$.
- $\mathbb{Z}_{n}-$ the integers, modulo $n$, under $+.\left(\mathbb{Z}_{n}\right.$ is [isomorphic](Isomorphism.md) to $\left.C_{n}\right)$
- $\mathbb{Q}^{*}, \mathbb{R}^{*}, \mathbb{C}^{*}-$ non-zero rationals/reals/complex numbers under $\times$.
- $\mathbb{Z}_{p}^{*}-$ the non-zero elements of $\mathbb{Z}_{p}$, where $p$ is a prime, under $\times$.
- $\mathbb{Z}_{n}^{*}-$ more generally for composite $n$, the units of $\mathbb{Z}_{n}$, those elements coprime with $n$ under $\times$.
- $(0, \infty)-$ the positive real numbers under $\times$.
- $\operatorname{Sym}(S)-$ the [permutations](Permutation.md) (i.e. bijections $S \rightarrow S)$ of a set $S$ under composition.
- $S_{n}-$ [permutations](Permutation.md) of $\{1,2, \ldots n\}$ under composition.
- $A_{n}$ - [[Alternating Group]]: even permutations of $\{1,2, \ldots, n\}$ under composition.
- $D_{2 n}-$ [[Dihedral Group]]: the symmetries of a regular $n$ -sided polygon under composition.
- $V$ or $V_{4}-$ the Klein four-group.
- $\mathbb{Z}_{2} \times \mathbb{Z}_{2} \cong\{e,(12)(34),(13)(24),(14)(23)\}$.
- $Q_{8}-$ the quaternion group  $\{\pm 1, \pm \mathbf{i}, \pm \mathbf{j}, \pm \mathbf{k}\}$.
- $S^{1}-$ the complex numbers with unit modulus under multiplication.
- $G L(n, F)-$ invertible $n \times n$ matrices with entries in the field $F$ under matrix multiplication.
- $S L(n, F)-$ the subgroup of $G L(n, F)$ whose elements have determinant 1 .
- $A G L(n, F)-$ the affine maps of $F^{n}$.
- $O(n)-$ orthogonal $n \times n$ real matrices $\left(A^{-1}=A^{T}\right)$ under matrix multiplication. Also $S O(n)$.
- $U(n)-$ unitary $n \times n$ complex matrices $\left(A^{-1}=\bar{A}^{T}\right)$ under matrix multiplication. Also $S U(n)$.
- $\operatorname{Aut}(G)-$ the automorphisms (i.e. isomorphisms $G \rightarrow G$ ) of a group $G$ under composition.
- $G_{1} \times G_{2}-$ the (direct) product group of two groups $G_{1}$ and $G_{2}$.
- $G / H-$ the quotient (or factor) group of a group $G$ by a normal subgroup $H$ of $G$.
- $\langle g\rangle-$ the [cyclic subgroup](Generator.md) of $G$ generated by $g \in G$.
- $\langle S\rangle-$ the subgroup of a group $G$ generated by a subset $S$ of $G$.
- $S O(n)-$ for $n \geq 1$, we define $S O(n):=\{A \in O(n): \operatorname{det} A=1\}$ to be the [[Special Orthogonal Group]], of orthogonal matrices with determinant 1 This forms a group under matrix multiplication.