
### Q6
Let $G$ be a finite group, let $H$ be a subgroup of $G$, and let $N$ be a normal subgroup of $G$ such that $N \cap H=\{e\}$.
(a) [2 marks] State Lagrange's Theorem. Define the order o $(g)$ of an element $g \in G$ and deduce that $o(g)$ divides $|G|$.
(b) [10 marks]
(i) When is a map $\phi: G \rightarrow G$ an isomorphism? (Isomorphisms from $G$ to $G$ are called automorphisms of $G$. )
(ii) Denoting the group of automorphisms of $G$ (under composition) by $\operatorname{Aut}(G)$, show that, for any prime $p,\left|\operatorname{Aut}\left(C_{p}\right)\right|=p-1$
(iii) Show that the (left) action of $H$ on $N$ by conjugation induces a homomorphism $\pi: H \rightarrow \operatorname{Aut}(N)$ and that if $\pi$ is the trivial homomorphism then the subgroup $\langle N, H\rangle$ of $G$ generated by $N$ and $H$ is isomorphic to $N \times H$.
(iv) Let $\Omega$ be the set of subgroups of $G$ that are isomorphic to $H$ and let $G$ act on $\Omega$ by conjugation. Prove that if, under this action, $\operatorname{Stab}(H)=G$ then $H$ is a normal subgroup of $G$, and if $\operatorname{Stab}(H)=H$ then $\Omega$ has at least $[G: H]$ elements. [You may use the [[Orbit-Stabilizer Theorem]] without proof.]

(c) [8 marks] Now assume that $|G|=35$.
(i) Show that $G$ has elements of order 5 and of order 7 .
(ii) Show that $G$ has a normal subgroup of order 5 or a normal subgroup of order 7 (or both).
(iii) Conclude that $G \cong C_{35}$.

7. (a) [8 marks] Let $G$ be a group. If $X$ is a set, define what it means for $a: G \times X \rightarrow X$ to be a left action of $G$ on $X$. Show that if $a$ is a (left) action of $G$ on $X$ then $a$ defines a group homomorphism $\rho_{a}: G \rightarrow \operatorname{Sym}(X)$, where $\operatorname{Sym}(X)$ is the group of bijections from $X$ to itself.
(b) [12 marks] Let $G=\mathrm{SO}_{3}(\mathbb{R})=\left\{X \in \mathcal{M}_{3 \times 3}(\mathbb{R}): X^{\operatorname{tr}} X=I, \operatorname{det}(X)=1\right\}$ be the group of
$3 \times 3$ matrices with determinant 1 for which $X^{-1}=X^{t r}$. The group $G$ acts on $\mathbb{R}^{3}$ (viewed as column vectors) by matrix multiplication: $a(X, v)=X v$.
(i) Show that this action induces an action of $G$ on the unit sphere
$$
S=\left\{v \in \mathbb{R}^{3}:\|v\|=1\right\}
$$
Here if $v=\left(v_{1}, v_{2}, v_{3}\right)^{t r}$ and $\langle\cdot, \cdot\rangle$ denotes the standard inner product on $\mathbb{R}^{3}$, then
$$
\|v\|=\left(v_{1}^{2}+v_{2}^{2}+v_{3}^{2}\right)^{1 / 2}=\left(v^{t r} v\right)^{1 / 2}=\langle v, v\rangle^{1 / 2}
$$
Describe the stabilizer $H$ of the vector $N=(1,0,0)^{t r}$.
(ii) Show that the action of $G$ on $S$ is transitive.
(iii) Show that, for any integer $n \geqslant 1$, the group $G$ has a subgroup of order $n$, and that $G$ has infinitely many non-Abelian subgroups.
[For part (b)(ii) it may be helpful to consider the stabilizer subgroups of $N=(1,0,0)^{t r}$ and $\left.(0,0,1)^{t r} .\right]$